---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.1 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the immediate availability of **Calamares 3.1**, a feature release in the 3 series which incrementally improves upon 3.0.1 with bug fixes and new features.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations. It is the first installer with an automated "Replace Partition" option, which makes it easy to reuse a partition over and over for distribution testing. Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Changes since the 3.0 series include:

* improved package selection user interface (by Kyle Robbertze, based on previous work by Lisa Vitolo and Luca Giambonini);
* support for disabling swap partition creation in automated partitioning;
* double-click as a way to edit a partition in the manual partitioning view;
* improved check for internet connection availability;
* improved package manager handling, so a package operation which fails for a single package won't block other packages;
* various minor fixes.

The Calamares 3 series includes an all new PythonQt-based module interface. The PythonQt interface is optional, and allows module developers to create view modules in Python with Qt.
To build Calamares with PythonQt support, the `-DWITH_PYTHONQT=ON` parameter must be passed to the `cmake` call. [PythonQt 3.1](http://pythonqt.sourceforge.net/) or later (built against Qt 5 and Python 3) is required.

This release also comes with a thoroughly documented `dummypythonqt` module, as an example on how to develop PythonQt Calamares modules.

Calamares drops support for KPMcore 2 starting with version 3.0. KPMcore 3.0.2 or later is required.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues).

Download: [calamares-3.1.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/releases/download/v3.1/calamares-3.1.0.tar.gz)

`MD5: 063d2d7e75eadfcc9678913475f5c394`

`SHA1: 1cb9399158cbd536f6cb54af44e18fd6d39c8ac8`
