---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.1.5 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the immediate
availability of **Calamares 3.1.5**, an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.1.5 is an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series, featuring improved Python 3 compatibility, ARM64 compatibility, and code cleanups.

* The crashreporter module has been dropped. The infrastructure for handling
  the reports has gone away, the code is not compatible with Glib 2.26,
   and the reports were of questionable value.
* Python 3.4 is once again supported.
* Improved reporting of dependencies (and most importantly, missing 
  dependencies) in CMake.
* Dozens of compilation warnings fixed up.
* Licensing information about Calamares and included third-party code
  is now up-to date and SPDX-encoded.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues). For a full change list, or the full list of [issues closed](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/41?closed=1) with this release, please see the Calamares code repository.
