---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.1.9 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the immediate
availability of **Calamares 3.1.9**, an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.1.9 is an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series.
It fixes one newly reported bug and backports one feature from the 3.2 branch.
- (bug) Netinstall corner cases: a hidden subgroup would be installed
  even when its parent was not selected, and a hidden subgroup could
  cause its parent to default to unselected.
- The branding element ProductLogo is used as the logo, instead of
  the product icon. If you have no *productLogo* set in `branding.desc`,
  please set it to the same value as *productIcon* (or use another graphic).

Distributions that use the netinstall module are strongly advised to
double-check the netinstall configuration. If there are hidden subgroups,
these were previously **always** installed. To keep this behavior,
move such subgroups so that they are hidden top-level groups.

The Calamares 3.1 series is slowing down. Development attention
is now turned to Calamares 3.2.0, which will be a feature-development
series of releases. For information on features planned for
the 3.2 series, see the 
[3.2 milestone](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/42).

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues). For a full change list, or the full list of [issues closed](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/44?closed=1) with this release, please see the Calamares code repository.
