---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.1.12 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce
the immediate availability of the year 2018, and also **Calamares 3.1.12**,
an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an
advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning
operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers
without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding
and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.1.12 is an incremental bugfix release in the 3.1 series,
continuing the every-other-week cadence established in 2017.
It fixes one reported issue and makes it easier to use Calamares
in non-KDE distributions.
 - (issue) The main Calamares window had no window-manager "close"
   button and did not react to Alt-F4 or other mechanisms to close
   the window. The user would have to click on the *Cancel*
   button. This has been resolved -- closing the Calamares window
   in other ways is possible, and asks for the same confirmation
   as the *Cancel* button.
 - The new KDE Plasma look-and-feel module added dependencies on
   KDE's Plasma and Package Frameworks. Since this adds a burden
   on non-KDE distributions that package Calamares (e.g. using
   `SKIP_MODULES`) the build system has been reworked to better
   support (and report on) modules with special dependencies.
   The Plasma look-and-feel module will now be skipped automatically
   if the dependencies are not met.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the
[**Calamares issue tracker**](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues).
