---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.0-rc4 available"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.0-rc4**, a (testing) pre-release
of the upcoming features-and-functionality of Calamares 3.2.0.
This is the new series of Calamares releases following on
from the stable 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.2.0-rc4 is a features-and-functionality release.

 * Translations have been expanded, with many strings not-previously
   localized now available for translation (this mostly applies to
   error messages which we hope you don't encounter).
 * There is a new command-line flag `-D` which switches on debugging
   output, **without** also enabling debug mode which loads modules
   from the current directory. You must give `-D` a
   debugging value from 0 to 8.
   Practical values are 0 (no debugging), 1 (errors only),
   2 (errors and warnings) and 6 (not-quite verbose logging).
 * The debugging framework has seen an overhaul, so that debugging
   information can be more easily understood. The number in
   square brackets in a log message (e.g. `[6]`) is the debug-level,
   where lower numbers are more important. `[1]` is reserved for errors.
 * The *contextualprocess* module now also supports a fallback
   (wildcard) match. If no other value matches a global configuration
   value, then the commands associated with the `*` value are run.
 * Python jobs can now issue warnings through the API.
 * The `locale.gen` file is now edited more conservatively; only lines
   starting with a comment sign immediately followed by an enabled-locale
   are uncommented.
 * Screenshots in the Plasma Look-and-Feel module are resized to fit the
   display in the selection widget.
 * The build should now be reproducible.

The branding module has also seen an overhaul. This better supports
branding modules that can be developed outside of the Calamares source
tree (so reducing the need for forks). There is a [calamares branding][3]
repository with examples, showing how branding modules can be built
independently. The default Calamares slideshow framework has been extended
with some new classes which can be used. Functionality that does not
make sense in an install-time slideshow (e.g. hitting the *c* key clears
the screen) has been removed. Distributions that use the *Presentation*
and *Slide* QML classes provided by Calamares are **strongly** advised
to double-check their slideshow functionality in this release.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/42?closed=1
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares-branding/
