---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.0-rc5 available"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.0-rc5**, a (testing) pre-release
of the upcoming features-and-functionality of Calamares 3.2.0.
This is the new series of Calamares releases following on
from the stable 3.1 series. The **-rc5** release is expected
to be the last candidate before 3.2.0.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.2.0-rc5 is a features-and-functionality release.

 * Translations have been updated. The Serbian (latin script)
   translation can now be correctly chosen in the language drop-down
   in the welcome page. The Polish (Poland) translation has been dropped,
   preferring the Polish translation (without the country indicator).
   Similarly, Spanish (Spain) is now dropped for Spanish.
 * The list of languages on the welcome page, where the user can select
   which language to use for the installer, now displays languages
   in their native representation, rather than the English name
   for each language (e.g. *shqip* for *Albanian*).
 * The session log has been renamed, to reduce useless repetitions.
   It can now be found in `~/.cache/calamares/session.log`. Distributions
   may need to re-configure modules that save the session log to the
   target system.
 * GeoIP handling has been updated to deal with JSON and XML data
   from selectable providers. See the release notes for 3.1.13 for
   details.
 * The layout of the Plasma LNF module has been improved.

Calamares now requires a sufficiently recent KPMCore. This release
also includes work from Caio Jordão Carvalho, who is contributing to KPMCore
and Calamares as part of the Google Summer of Code programme.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/42?closed=1
