---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.0 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.0**, the first iteration of
the new features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x releases.
This is the new series of Calamares releases following on
from the stable 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

All of the updates from the -rc series apply:
 * [rc3](2018-01-31-calamares-3.2.0-rc3-is-out.md)
 * [rc4](2018-03-12-calamares-3.2.0-rc4-is-out.md)
 * [rc5](2018-05-10-calamares-3.2.0-rc5-is-out.md)

In addition:
 * UI annoyances in the partitioning module were fixed; the
   mount-point selector is now more obvious when no mount-point
   has been chosen, and the mount-point and flags are preserved
   when (re)editing partitions.
 * The handling of `@@ROOT@@` substitution in shellprocesses was
   backwards; this has been fixed (the substitution is made when
   running in the **host**).
 * The user shell is no longer hard-coded to `/bin/bash`,
   but follows the default setting for useradd(8), e.g.
   those set in `/etc/default/useradd`.

Calamares now requires a sufficiently recent KPMCore. This release
also includes work from Caio Jordão Carvalho, who is contributing to KPMCore
and Calamares as part of the Google Summer of Code programme.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/42?closed=1
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/45
