---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.1.13 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce
the immediate availability of **Calamares 3.1.13**,
an incremental friday-the-13th update in the 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an
advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning
operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers
without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding
and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.1.13 is an incremental update in the 3.1 series,
which has seen no major bugs reported since 3.1.12 ten weeks ago.
Distributions that use the GeoIP feature of Calamares are 
**strongly recommended** to update to Calamares 3.1.13.

 - The GeoIP service provided by FreeGeoIP.net is 
   [closing down](https://github.com/apilayer/freegeoip#readme)
   and a different API is being offered, including a free (gratis)
   service tier. Distributions that use the GeoIP feature of
   Calamares and have it configured to use the FreeGeoIP service,
   will need to modify their Calamares configurations.
 - Calamares now supports three forms of GeoIP data:
   - *legacy* behaves as before, in appending `/json/` to the
     configured URL and reading JSON-style data.
   - *json* does not modify the URL, and reads JSON-style data.
   - *xml* does not modify the URL, and reads XML-style data.
   The formats are more extensively documented in the `locale.conf`
   configuration file. XML style data may be obtained from
   geoip.ubuntu.com (although it would be impolite to use that
   source unless your distro is an Ubuntu derivative).

Minor improvements in this release are:
 - PlasmaLNF module now searches in more places for the screenshots
   of the Plasma themes.
 - There are more configuration options; existing configurations
   should continue to work unchanged.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the
[**Calamares issue tracker**](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues).
