---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.17 released"
---
After a month of too-much-travel and slow development,
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.17**, a minor features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series.
This tried to be a short-cycle release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Bill Auger

## Core ##
 - A translation "string freeze" is now enforced by the release scripts.

## Modules ##
 - A new module, *hostinfo*, places information about the host into
   Global Storage. This can support contextualprocess modules that
   need that information.
 - The password-checks in the *users* module are now ordered consistently.
   A new check *nonempty* can be used to explicitly check for a non-empty
   password. This was previously hard-coded. If you have no other
   password-requirements set (e.g. minimum-length) and rely on
   Calamares to filter out empty passwords, add this check.
 - The *grubcfg* module has a new configuration setting *keepDistributor*
   which prevents replacing the `GRUB_DISTRIBUTION` line when writing
   the new configuration. #1201
 - *packagechooser* documentation has been updated.
 - *welcome* module now works better with dark themes.
 - The *license* module could get into a confused state, now fixed. #1271


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.17
