---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.4 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.4**, the fourth update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a lots-of-features and a bugfix release. There are new modules, too.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Alf Gaida
 - aliveafter1000
 - Arnaud Ferraris
 - Caio Jordão Carvalho
 - Collabora LTD
 - Gabriel Craciunescu
 - Kevin Kofler
 - Philip Mueller
 - Scott Harvey

## Core ##

 * The Calamares application now recognizes the `-X` or `--xdg-config`
   option, which adds XDG_DATA_DIRS to the places used to find QML
   and branding directories, and XDG_CONFIG_DIRS to the places used
   to find the global settings and module configurations. This allows
   a more fine-grained, and more layered, approach to setting up
   Calamares configurations (in particular, distro's can **add**
   configuration files and give them priority, instead of **forking**
   configuration files).
 * The *branding* file now contains settings that control the size
   and resize behavior of Calamares. See the branding file for
   more documentation. In particular, the setting *windowExpanding*
   can be set to *normal*, *fullscreen* or *noexpand*.
 * The `settings.conf` file can now configure whether the *Cancel* button
   is shown (this isn't a branding thing, because it's quite fundamental
   to the workflow of the installer).

## Modules ##

 * The *partition* module supports RAID devices, but only when Calamares
   is compiled with the newest KPMCore release (3.3.0).
 * The calculation of required space -- including swap -- has been simplified,
   and Calamares no longer reserves 2GiB of space in calculations for internal
   use (this means that it no longer mysteriously drops swap when the disk
   size is close to the required installation size).
 * The name of the type of default filesystem (e.g. ext4 or btrfs) is now handled
   case- and localization-insensitively. This means that *btrfs* is now always
   an acceptable spelling.
 * The currently-selected disk device is remembered between manual partitioning
   and the partitioning-overview pages. (Thanks to Arnaud)
 * *partition* There is new support for partitioning layout presets.
   See `partition.conf` for documentation and details.
 * The *keyboard* module now handles the (bogus) Austrian keymap for
   the system console properly. (Thanks to Kevin)
 * The *preservefiles* module now has a mechanism for setting the permissions
   (and ownership) of preserved files. (Thanks to Scott)
 * New module *fsresizer* can be used to resize filesystems. It is intended
   for use in OEM installs where an image of fixed size is created,
   and then sized to the actual SD card the user has used.
 * The *mount* module now handles missing *extraMounts* and *extraMountsEfi*
   keys gracefully (this is probably a misconfiguration, though, and gives a
   warning).
 * The *packages* module now supports pre- and post-script options
   for all operations, not just during install (keep in mind that
   these run as three separate shells, though).
 * A new *rawfs* module supports straightforward copying of filesystems from
   the installation media to the target stystem. This can be used, for instance,
   for block-level-identical installations.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.4
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/49
