---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.13 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.13**, a features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series. There are improvements in the *packagechooser*
module, an optional *Donate* button on the welcome page, and better QML support.
This is a short-cycle release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Arnaud Ferraris
 - Arnaud Rebillout
 - Bill Auger
 - Kevin Kofler

## Core ##

- The Calamares standard coding style -- embodied in `ci/calamaresstyle`
  has had a few updates and has now been consistently applied across
  the core codebase (e.g. libcalamares, libcalamaresui, calamares, but
  not the modules).
- *KCoreAddons* is now a required dependency. This lets us drop a chunk
  of code that was copied from KCoreAddons years ago, and use the
  (maintained!) upstream version instead. It also gives us KMacroExpander
  everywhere, which will simplify code for handling substitutions
  in configuration files.
- *Slideshows* now have a new property *activatedInCalamares* which
  controls the keyboard shortcuts (and can control timers and other
  properties of the slideshow, too).

## Modules ##

- The *packagechooser* module can load data from the config-file,
  from AppData XML files referred by the config-file, and (new) also
  from AppStream caches by referring to an application's AppStream id. #1212
- The *partition* module now understands the units *KB*, *MB*, *GB* which
  are powers-of-ten sizes, alongside the powers-of-two sizes that it already
  used. (thanks to Arnaud)
- The *welcome* module now supports a *Donate* button if *showDonateUrl*
  is set to a non-empty URL. #1197
- The *welcome* module can have URLs for the various buttons configured
  directly in the module configuration (rather than in `branding.desc`).


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.13
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/55
