---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.14 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.14**, a small features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series. There are improvements in the *packagechooser*,
*displaymanager* and *unpackfs* modules.
This is a short-cycle release (even though it took a month).

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Andrius Štikonas
 - Harald Sitter

## Core ##
 - No changes to core functionality

## Modules ##

 - *locale* module no longer recognizes the legacy GeoIP configuration.
   This has been deprecated since Calamares 3.2.8 and is now removed.
 - *packagechooser* module can now be custom-labeled in the overall
   progress (left-hand column). #1228
 - *displaymanager* module now recognizes KDE Plasma 5.17.
 - *displaymanager* module now can handle Wayland sessions and can detect
   sessions from their .desktop files. #1247 #1248
 - *unpackfs* now has special handling for *sourcefs* setting "file"
   (so you can copy single files or directories that are on the source
   system, directly to the target). #1188 #1181

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.14
