---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.12 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.12**, a feature release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series. A new module, *packagechooser*, has been
added to complement the *netinstall* module. Esperanto is now
available as a translation.
This is a short-cycle release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - apt-ghetto
 - Bill Auger
 - embar

## Core ##

 - Preliminary work to allow jobs to have a *weight* assigned to them
   has been added. This will allow the progress bar to better reflect
   progress by the amount of work done rather than purely by the
   number of jobs. (Thanks to Bill Auger)
 - Preliminary work has been added to post the installation log to a
   pastebin for bug reporting. (Thanks to Bill Auger)
 - Support for translated human-readable strings in Calamares
   config files has been added. This is used only in the *packagechooser*
   module (see below) but will expand to those modules that need
   user-visible strings from the configuration file (existing
   solutions need either gettext or Qt support).
 - Esperanto is now available when Qt version 5.12.2 or later is used.

## Modules ##

 - *fstab* A new configuration key *efiMountOptions* has been added, to
   allow setting filesystem options specifically for the EFI partition.
   (Thanks to apt-ghetto)
 - *packagechooser* is a new module for low-density package choices,
   e.g. for selecting a default desktop environment, or adding some
   proprietary drivers, or chosing browsers of office suites. It presents
   **one** collection of items -- at most ten or so, because of the UI --
   and the user can select zero or more of them. The behavior is
   configurable, and package information can be set through the Calamares
   configuration file or by reading AppData files for the packages.
   See the [deployment wiki](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/wiki/Deploy-Configuration) for more details. #426

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list
please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/54
