---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.21 released"
---
After a month in which the world changed considerably,
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is announces the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.21**, a features-and-bugfixes release.
The Calamares 3.2 branch continues to be developed, but a 3.3 branch
seems to be coming closer.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Camilo Higuita
 - Gabriel Craciunescu
 - Gaël PORTAY

## Core ##
 - Python job modules (such as *unpackfs* or *packages*) can now provide
   a `pretty_status_message()` function, like the existing `pretty_name()`
   function, that is used to update the status during install. #1330
 - QML support-modules and objects are now registered into the io.calamares
   namespace. This affects modules using Calamares models inside their
   QML UI (at this point, very few). With this release, the necessary
   `import` for Calamares parts looks like
   ```
import io.calamares.ui 1.0
```
   A complete list of objects available from Calamares van be found in the
   documentation in `Qml.h`.
 - The sidebar (which shows overall progress in the installation) is now
   more configurable: the branding key *sidebar* controls it. The sidebar
   can be shown as a widget (default, as it has been), hidden, or use a
   new QML view which is more easily customised.
 - A new `settings.conf` key *quit-at-end* will automatically close
   Calamares (by clicking on the *Done* button) when the end of the
   sequence is reached. If *finished* is the last module in the sequence,
   this will run whatever it is configured for; you can also leave out
   the finished page and Calamares will close after the exec parts.

## Modules ##
 - *packages* now reports more details in the installation progress-bar.
 - *netinstall* module supports an `expanded` key, which will pre-expand
   a group (as if the user had pressed the arrow-button in the tree-view).
   This only affects the UI, and only the **outermost** level of groups.
 - *netinstall* module now supports a special value for *groupsUrl*.
   Setting this to *local* will read the groups directly from the
   configuration file.
 - *netinstall* groups now support a new key `immutable` which prevents
   their check-state from being changed (they are shown, or hidden,
   as usual and can be expanded).
 - Modules that use QML need a new import line. The QML file for the
   module is configured through new keys *qmlSearch* and *qmlFilename*
   (previously those were without the `qml` prefix, which invites name
   collisions). The full module identifier is also used as a filename,
   so that multiple instances of a module can use different QML files.
 - *partition* module has a number of new features and settings for
   type, UUID, and filesystem characteristics. Thanks to Gaël.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.21
