---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.24 released"
---

Without much enthusiasm -- fixing regressions isn't what we like to
do, and only small progress was made elsewhere -- the
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) announces the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.24**, a mostly-bugfixes release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Bill Auger
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Luna Jernberg
 - Philip Müller

## Core ##
 - There is now a bash-completions script for Calamares; turn on
   the (CMake-time) option INSTALL_COMPLETION to get it. (Thanks Gaël)
 - The *productWallpaper* setting is documented and works. (Thanks Bill)
 - GlobalStorage is available to QML modules as `Global`.
 - The height of the navigation bar in QML can be set within the
   QML code for the navigation; if not set, try something sensible.
 - A regression in the requirements-checker which could block the
   installer from proceeding without telling the user **why** it
   was blocked, has been resolved.

## Modules ##
 - The *bootloader* module can force a UEFI-based machine to boot into
   the newly-installed system. #1394 (Thanks Gaël)
 - *partition* Pop-ups about boot flags use the right flag names. #1192


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.24
