---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 1.1.2 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is proud to announce the immediate availability of **Calamares 1.1.2**, a maintenance release that fixes several issues that were discovered since the last bug fix release two weeks ago.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations. It is the first installer with an automated "Replace Partition" option, which makes it easy to reuse a partition over and over for distribution testing. Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

The change log for this release includes:

* Improved window size calculation on small displays.
* Added the option of not installing a boot loader on MBR (legacy BIOS boot) systems.
* Added the option of changing the file system type when editing a partition.
* Fixed an issue which sometimes allowed Calamares to try to mount certain non-mountable file systems.
* Fixed an issue with the time zone choice not being immediately applied in some cases.
* Fixed a crash which could sometimes happen when advancing through the installer with the diagnostics interface open.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://calamares.io/bugs/).

Download: [calamares-1.1.2.tar.gz](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/releases/download/v1.1.2/calamares-1.1.2.tar.gz)

`MD5: b2dda1519a32bd002b712c9673c912e3`

`SHA1: 1c4453d80a6726f71b09c21b930e1b71519da981`
