---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 1.1.3 out now"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the immediate availability of **Calamares 1.1.3**, a maintenance and feature release that fixes several issues that were discovered since 1.1.2 and adds some exciting new modules.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations. It is the first installer with an automated "Replace Partition" option, which makes it easy to reuse a partition over and over for distribution testing. Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

The change log for this release includes:

* An all new WebView module, which allows the deployer to show any web page in a WebKit environment.
* An all new License module, which allows the deployer to require acceptance of licensing terms for proprietary components.
* Enhanced autologin defaults customization.
* Support for blacklisting modules at build time.
* Service disabling support in the Services module.
* Several bug fixes in the partitioning component.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://calamares.io/bugs/).

Download: [calamares-1.1.3.tar.gz](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/releases/download/v1.1.3/calamares-1.1.3.tar.gz)

`MD5: 43645d4c6a5e59055e099fd062b158a8`

`SHA1: b6c71625e2c60b1479fb25ea7c9ab9b162f6f7e3`
