---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.0.1 is out"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the immediate availability of **Calamares 3.0.1**, a bug fix release hot on the heels of 3.0.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations. It is the first installer with an automated "Replace Partition" option, which makes it easy to reuse a partition over and over for distribution testing. Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external modules support.

<!--more-->

Highlights of this release include:

* fix for an issue in the users module, which could break login if the chosen password had non-Latin1 characters;
* proper exception handling in the networkcfg module;
* improved autologin configuration handling for sddm.

The Calamares 3 series includes an all new PythonQt-based module interface. The PythonQt interface is optional, and allows module developers to create view modules in Python with Qt.
To build Calamares with PythonQt support, the `-DWITH_PYTHONQT=ON` parameter must be passed to the `cmake` call. [PythonQt 3.1](http://pythonqt.sourceforge.net/) or later (built against Qt 5 and Python 3) is required.

This release also comes with a thoroughly documented `dummypythonqt` module, as an example on how to develop PythonQt Calamares modules.

Calamares drops support for KPMcore 2 starting with version 3.0. KPMcore 3.0.2 or later is required.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it on the [**Calamares issue tracker**](https://calamares.io/bugs/).

Download: [calamares-3.0.1.tar.gz](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/releases/download/v3.0.1/calamares-3.0.1.tar.gz)

`MD5: f929cfcefad08a2bd3337ee19e7f55ec`

`SHA1: cd56c80974347e1205fd21a58625a66a224fa1f0`
