---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.1 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.1**, the first update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

Changes in this release:
 * Contributions from the following people (alphabetically by first name):
   - Bill Auguer 
   - Gabriel Craciunescu
   - Phil Mueller
   - Raul Rodrigo Segura
 * New translations Belarussian and Korean.
 * Improved debugging when modules fail to load.
 * New module preservefiles, keeps (log) files around after install;
   this duplicates functionality with the unmount module, but unmount
   is very late, rather limited, and fragile.
 * Interactiveterminal module now disables itself if build requirements
   are not met, rather than blocking the build.
 * Fixes in the timezone map data make the southern hemisphere more
   usable and put Reykjavik in its place.
 * Jobs can now be *emergency jobs* which run even after a failure.
 * The packages module can now update the target system if explicitly
   told to do so.

In addition:
 * Distributions are advised to review the `users.conf` setup **again**,
   as some changes in version 3.2.0 caused regressions downstream.
 * Distributions are advised to review their `locale.gen` files
   **again**. Previous changes were too restrictive, matching only
   the specific format Chakra Linux uses. Calamares now preserves
   all the comment-lines in the file and writes enabled locales
   at the end, with a descriptive comment.
 * More paths and executables are configurable in the bootloader module.
 * New testing application `loadmodule` for loading and running a
   single Calamares module.
 * Qt 5.7 is now the minimum required Qt version. Because KPMCore
   (a fairly fundamental dependency) requires Qt 5.7, Calamares
   has followed suit.
 * Bad configuration files will now cause the user-interface of
   Calamares to display an error message, rather than silently
   ignoring some configuration errors. This will certainly cause
   problems for distributions with sloppy configurations.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.1
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/45
