---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.0-rc3 available"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.0-rc3**, a (testing) pre-release
of the upcoming features-and-functionality of Calamares 3.2.0.
This is the new series of Calamares releases following on
from the stable 3.1 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

Calamares 3.2.0-rc3 is a features-and-functionality release.

* New translations Hindi, Marathi (thanks to *asaagar*) and Albanian
  (thanks to *besnik*) are now available.
* Documentation improvements
  (thanks to *crazy*, *rajudev*).
* CMake now reports on skipped modules at the end of the configuration
  phase. This will list modules explicitly skipped by the build
  configuration, but also optional modules that are skipped because
  of missing dependencies.
* Minor polishing and tidying all over the place
  (thanks to *bezzy1999*, *bill-auger*).
* It is now possible to configure Calamares to "phone home" at the
  end of an installation and to configure *update-manager* with
  a machine-specific URL. Use the *tracking* module for this.
* A new module supporting OpenRC initialization of encrypted filesystems.
  For distro's that do not use systemd, the `openrcdmcryptcfg` module
  can be used alongside other modules.
* A new module for KDE Plasma Desktop has been added. This allows
  the selection of the Plasma Look-and-Feel from the installer.
  This module is enabled only when the KDE Plasma and KDE Package
  frameworks are available at build time, and requires run-time 
  support through the Plasma look-and-feel tool.
* Improved guessing of keyboard layouts based on the system language.
  For example, Catalan and Hausa now select appropriate default
  keyboard mappings instead of their national defaults (Spanish and English,
  respectively).
* New modules *ShellProcess* and *ContextualProcess* can run lists
  of (shell) commands. The *ShellProcess* module can replace
  other modules that are copied from dummyprocess with a single
  configuration file and an instance declaration in `settings.conf`
  (e.g. replace a forked module with a configuration file).
  The *ContextualProcess* module runs a list of shell commands
  based on the value of global configuration values (e.g.
  the firmware type of the host system).
* The *bootloader* module now has a knob `installEFIFallback` which
  can be set to false if you expect only to install on non-broken
  UEFI setups (all modern boards).


Changed optional requirements:
* KCrash (known from the desktop helper *Dr Konqi*) is now an optional
  dependency; it can help developers and users report problems with
  Calamares.

Changed mandatory requirements:
* Libparted is no longer mandatory. If the library is missing,
  Calamares will ignore the (rather inaccurate) check for
  available space for installation in the welcome screen.
  If the check is enabled in `welcome.conf`, it will always fail.
* KPMcore 3.3 is required. If the required KPMCore version is not
  available, the *partition* module is skipped (this will be noted
  in the CMake output).

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/42?closed=1
