---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.2 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.2**, the second update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
Changes in this release require distributions to **carefully review**
the configuration files and settings for Calamares.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Andrius Štikonas
 - artoo@cromnix.org
 - Caio Jordão Carvalho
 - Harald Sitter
 - Philip Müller
 - Simon Quigley
 - Walter Lapchynski

## Core ##

 * Example configurations are **no longer installed** by default.
   The default setting for *INSTALL_CONFIG* has changed. Distributions
   are strongly encouraged to write their own configuration files and
   not rely on the example configuration files. Example configurations
   may change unpredictably.
 * It is now possible to express module dependencies through the
   *requiredModules* key in `module.desc`. All of the required modules
   for a given module must occur in the sequence **before** the module
   requiring them. None of the core modules use this facility.
 * The search paths for QML files, branding descriptors and module
   descriptors have been revamped and now self-document in the log.
 * A new `ci/RELEASE.sh` script has been added to streamline releases;
   it is not guaranteed to work anywhere in particular though.

## Modules ##

 * When multiple modules are mutually exclusive, or don't make sense
   to enable concurrectly, a new `USE_<foo>` framework has been added
   to CMake to simplify the selection of modules. This is in addition
   to the existing `SKIP_MODULES` mechanism.
 * Various off-by-one-sector errors in the automatic partitioning
   mode have been corrected. In addition, swap space is calculated
   a little more conservatively.
 * A new module has been added to the core which can configure openrc
   services. To make services configuration consistent:
   - The *services* module has been **renamed** *services-systemd*,
   - The openrc module is named *services-openrc*,
   - At CMake time, it is possible to select all of the services modules,
     or one specific one, by setting the *USE_services* CMake variable.
     By default, all of the modules are built and installed.
 * The systemd-services module can now disable targets and mask both
   targets and services (which will allow you to break the system with
   a bad configuration). The configuration is a little more flexible
   because a service (or target) name can be used on its own with
   sensible defaults.
 * The displaymanager module has been entirely revamped. A long-standing
   bug which ignored the settings for default desktop has been fixed
   (thanks to Walter Lapchynski). Translations have been added to the
   error messages. Each DM now has an implementation class for doing
   all the configuration steps it needs. This groups the code needed for
   a specific DM (and presumably, per-distro) in one place.
   Distro's are **strongly advised** to re-test their DM configuration
   and installation with the revamped code.


If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.2
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/46
