---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.16 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.16**, a small features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series. There are mostly improvements in the
*users* module.
This is a short-cycle release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Bill Auger

## Core ##
 - Some obscure build scenarios which would lead to bogus module-is-
   misconfigured messages on startup have been resolved.

## Modules ##
 - The explanatory messages on the *users* page have moved to tooltips,
   and placeholder text has been added to the fields. #1202
 - The bad-password messages in the *users* page have been improved. #1261
 - Password-checking in the *users* module has been substantially
   changed. A new key *allowWeakPasswords* can be used to introduce
   an additional checkbox to the page, which can then be used to
   switch off strict password checking. (Thanks to Bill Auger)
 - The icons used in password warnings on the *users* page have been
   changed to the colorful status icons (rather than the thin red X).

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.16
