---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.6 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.6**, the sixth update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a short-cycle feature release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

**Note:** There is a regression in the *localecfg* module, do not
use this version.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Arnaud Ferraris
 - Dominic Hayes (feren)
 - Raul Rodrigo Segura (raurodse)

## Core ##

 * Under-the-hood code cleanups in lots of parts of the core. Calamares now
   builds without warnings when Clang 8 is used.
 * A new *disable-cancel-during-exec* setting provides more fine-grained
   control than *disable-cancel*, which hides the button entirely.
   #1122 (Thanks to Dominic, FerenOS)
 * A branding module can now also cause a stylesheet to be loaded, which
   will be applied to the widgets inside Calamares. #961 (Thanks to Raul)

## Modules ##

 * All of the Python-based modules now have translations enabled. #991
 * *Displaymanager* module has improved support for LightDM configuration.
   #1123 (Thanks to Dominic, FerenOS)
 * *License* module can now display local files inline, and scrolls to
   allow longer lists of licenses and to support long license texts
   displayed inline. #1124 #1125 #1052
 * *Partition* module has additional checks for validity partition layouts.
   #1127 (Thanks to Arnaud)
 * *Welcome* module has improved usability: a standard icon
   alongside the *Language* label, for improved recognition,
   and improved language-list display and sorting. #1107

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.6
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/51
