---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.9 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.9**, yet another update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a short-cycle feature-and-bugfix release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Kevin Kofler

## Core ##

No user- or deployer-visible changes. Bugfixing as usual, see the
milestone for details.

## Modules ##

 - *branding* now supports os-release variables in the *strings* section,
   which allows re-using (at runtime) information set in /etc/os-release .
   This requires KDE Frameworks 5.58. #1150
 - *branding* allows the use of FreeDesktop.org icon names for the
   *productLogo* and *productIcon* keys. If a file is named there, then
   the file is used, and otherwise the icon is looked up in the current
   theme. #1160
 - *packages* On Arch, with the `pacman` package manager, avoid a hang
   during system update. #1154
 - *welcome* allows a custom image path or icon name to be set for the
   language-selection drop-down (instead of the international standard one).

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.9
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/53
