---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.5 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.5**, the fifth update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a features and an important bugfix release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Arnaud Ferraris
 - Dan Simmons
 - Gabriel Craciunescu

## Core ##

 * View modules (in C++) can now perform their own requirements-checking
   to see if installation makes sense. This expands upon the existing
   requirements checks in the welcome module (RAM, disk space, ..).
   The checks have been made asynchronous, so that responsiveness during
   requirements-checking is improved and the user has better feedback.
 * Support for building an AppImage of Calamares has been added to the
   `ci/` directory. There are use-cases where a containerized build and
   configuration make sense rather than having Calamares installed in the
   host system. (Thanks to the AppImage team, Alexis)
 * OEM mode (phase-1) now correctly refers to Calamares as a "Setup Program"
   rather than an installer. #1100 (Thanks to Arnaud)

## Modules ##

 * *Bootloader* module: a serious bug introduced in 3.2.4 which prevents
   succesful boot after installation on EFI machines, has been repaired.
   (Thanks to Gabriel) #1104
 * *Displaymanager* module: it is no longer a fatal error to not have any
   display-managers. #1095
 * *Partition* module: it is now possible to build without libparted. Since
   KPMCore may not need this library anymore, it is a dependency that will
   be dropped as soon as it is feasible. Add this to the CMake flags:
   `-DCMAKE_DISABLE_FIND_PACKAGE_LIBPARTED=ON`
 * *Partition* module: the location that is selected for the bootloader,
   no longer changes when a new partition is created. #1098
 * Python modules: several modules have had translations added. This is
   usually only visible when the module runs as part of the *exec* step,
   when the module's *pretty name* is displayed. In addition, some error
   messages are now translated.
 * *UnpackFS* module: improved progress reporting and tests. #565

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.5
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/50
