---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.8 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.8**, the eighth update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a short-cycle feature release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This is a **source-incompatible** release of Calamares. Include files
have been shuffled around, so third-party C++ modules will need
adjustment to the changed names. There are probably some packaging surprises
due to all the moved files, as well.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Arnaud Ferraris
 - Kevin Kofler

## Core ##

 - All user-visible texts referring to "MB" and "GB" now use the standard
   "MiB" and "GiB" wording, which matches what we were actually calculating
   with (i.e. 2^20 and 2^30 respectively). #1129
 - The side-pane, which shows the list of steps that will be executed,
   now tries to fit the text (name of each module) into the available space
   by shrinking the font as needed. #1137
 - *libcalamares* (accidentally) linked with Qt's GUI libraries when
   PythonQt was found. This led to the odd situation where the non-GUI
   Calamares library depends on a bunch of GUI libraries.
 - *libcalamares* The `utils/` subdirectory has been hugely refactored,
   with functionality split out into separate files. C++ modules will
   need to have their `#include` names updated. Basically, users of
   `utils/CalamaresUtils.h` will need to include the header file for
   the functionality that is actually used.

## Modules ##

 - *finished* has a new mechanism for configuring the behavior of the
   *restart now* button. The old-style boolean configuration is still
   supported but generates a warning. #1138
 - *locale* module GeoIP configuration has a new preferred format.
   See `locale.conf` for details. The old configuration is still
   supported but will be phased out before 3.3.0 -- in particular,
   support for "legacy" format will be removed, since that was a
   crutch for the disappearance of one GeoIP provider in 2018.
 - *oemid* is a new module for configuring OEM phase-0 (image pre-mastering,
   or pre-deployment) things. It has limited functionality at the moment,
   writing only a single batch-identifier file. #943
 - *welcome* can now do GeoIP lookups as well (but be careful with the
   configuration, since you need a GeoIP that provides country information,
   not just timezones). This will let Calamares select a starting language
   that matches where it is -- which might not be useful at all. #934
 - All Python modules now bail out gracefully on (at least some) bad
   configurations, rather than raising an exception. The pre-release
   scripts now test for exceptions to avoid shipping modules with
   ImportError or SyntaxError results.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.7
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/52
