---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.3 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.3**, the third update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a bugfix release, with no configuration changes for review.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - aliveafter1000

## Core ##

There are no core changes in this release.

## Modules ##

 * *partition* Fixed bug where, during detection of existing systems, the
   existing system partitions may be mounted and then files deleted.
   This is a **limited** version of the patch from aliveafter1000
   that will be in 3.2.4, which tries harder to mount filesystems
   read-only and unmodifiable.
 * *locale* It was possible to set the installer and system language
   (e.g. to German) while the global storage value for *locale*
   remained set to English. Then no localization packages are installed
   (see feature `${LOCALE}` in `packages.conf`). Reported downstream
   in Netrunner.


If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.3
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/48
