---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.10 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.10**, yet another update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
This is a short-cycle feature-and-bugfix release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - No other contributors this time around.

Distributions are **advised** to check the slideshow they use for the
installation step; changes in loading and translation mechanisms may
require changes in the slideshow.

## Core ##

 - With this release, option *WITH_PYTHONQT* changes default to **off**.
   There does not seem to be any serious use of the PythonQt API and
   the UI opportunities it offers, so begin the process of deprecating
   and removing that. Sometime in the future, QML pages will fill the
   gap for easily-prototyped-yet-slick UI elements.
 - A crash when no *finished* page (or rather, no page at all) is
   configured after the last *exec* section of the sequence has been
   solved. The *finished* page can be left out (but then you don't get
   the restart-now functionality). #1168
 - The *slideshow* which is run during installation now has API versions.
   API version 1 (the default) runs as before, where the slideshow is loaded
   when the installation starts. API version 2 loads the slideshow on
   Calamares startup, thus improving responsiveness. Documentation
   in `src/branding/README.md`. #1152
 - The example slideshow now uses API version 2.

## Modules ##

 - *initramfs* has been changed from a Python module to a C++ module.
   Packaging will need to adjust now it installs a .so instead of a .py.
   The module itself functions as before. It does have a new configuration
   option, to change the version passed as to the `-k` option of
   update-initramfs. #1180
 - *partition* Now has its own setting for *requiredStorage*, duplicating
   the same setting in the *welcome* module. This is useful for
   configurations where no *welcome* module is used, but a minimum
   size must be checked anyway. #1169

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.10
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/54
