---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.15 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.15**, a small features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series. There are improvements in the
*displaymanager*, *machineid* and *unpackfs* modules.
This is a short-cycle release (extra-quick this time).

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - No other contributors this time around.

## Core ##
 - No changes to core functionality

## Modules ##

 - *displaymanager* module now treats *sysconfig* as a regular entry in the
   *displaymanagers* list, and the *sysconfigSetup* key is used as a
   shorthand to force **only** that entry in the list. #1253
 - *machineid* module has been re-written in C++ and extended with
   a new configuration key to generate urandom pool data. #1252
 - *unpackfs* now supports a special *sourcefs* value of `file`
   for copying single files (optionally with renaming) or directory
   trees to the target system.
 - *unpackfs* now support an *exclude* and *excludeFile* setting for
   excluding particular files or patters from unpacking. #1229

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.15
