---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.23 released"
---
As part of an extra-short-cycle release
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.23**, a features-and-bugfixes release.
This was extra-short to get some annoying translation regressions
out of the way.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - FLVAL (new contributor, welcome!)

## Core ##
 - Some strange annotations were added to the *About* dialog text in
   all the translations, like `{1?}`. These have been removed again.

## Modules ##
 - *locale* module had some errors in timezone data, where clicking
   on a city would select a different timezone. Some of these are
   now fixed (thanks FLVAL). #1374
 - *netinstall* supports a wider variety of package naming schemes,
   and is more flexible in loading a `netinstall.yaml` that is copied from
   the example configuration file, *groups* key and all. #1369
 - *users* module logs a full error message from libpwquality if something
   is wrong internally.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.23
