---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.25 released"
---

The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
immediate availability of **Calamares 3.2.24**, a bugfixes-and-features release.
There was some slip on this release, and in the end not all the desired
features landed.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Callum Farmer
 - FLVAL
 - Gaël PORTAY

## Core ##
 - The slideshow in `branding.desc` can be configured with QML (recommended,
   as it has been for the past umpteen releases) or with a list of
   images (new).
 - It is possible to turn off all the new QML code -- navigation, slideshow,
   QML-based modules -- with a single `-DWITH_QML=OFF` at CMake time.
   This removes QML from Calamares' dependency footprint (but only saves
   200kB in Calamares itself).
 - Tests have been extended and now support a tests/CMakeTests.txt file
   for fine-tuning tests for Python modules.
 - SPDX identifiers are used much more widely and consistently in Calamares.
   (thanks Callum)

## Modules ##
 - The QML based *welcomeq* module is now a viable alternative to the
   *welcome*(widgets based) module. Using QML files means it no longer
   is needed to have pop-up windows for additional information or warnings,
   all loads in the Calamares window itself.  Additional features include the
   option to customize the *About* info and load files like Release Notes
   direct into Calamares, QML files added to the branding directory can be used.
 - The *welcome* and *locale* modules that do GeoIP lookup can now also
   use "fixed" style; this just negates the GeoIP lookup and substitutes a
   constant (fixed) value; useful for testing specific locales.
 - The *keyboard* module no longer uses *ca_eng* keyboards in Canada by
   default, but sticks to the *us* keyboard. #1419


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.25
