---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.19 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.19**, a bugfixes-and-translations
release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series.
This tried to be a short-cycle release, but went 50% over.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Camilo Higuita
 - Gabriel Craciunescu

## Core ##
 - *Assamese* translation has been completed.
 - Translations are now loaded from more places: instead of **only**
   being compiled in to the Calamares executable, they can now be
   read from the current directory (when Calamares is run in developer
   mode) and from the application data directory.This allows updating the
   translations without requiring a recompile: helpful for translators
   and possibly for distributions with their own translation style.
   See the translators and deployers wiki for details.
 - A new `ViewStep` base class, `QmlViewStep`, has been added that loads
   a configurable QML file and plays it. This is used by the new *notesqml*
   module -- which is in itself a minimal wrapper around the same that
   adds only a translatable module name.

## Modules ##
 - The *machineid* and *users* modules now prefer high-quality random
   data from `/dev/urandom` rather than pseudo-random data. #1254
 - A new *notesqml* module supports loading QML. This can be used for
   "fancy" release notes as a QML application, rather than a webview
   or text widget. Note that this does not replace the slideshow-during-
   installation module.
 - The *users* module now has knobs for setting the hostname and writing
   the `/etc/hosts` file. The new configuration options are documented
   in `users.conf`. #1140
 - Multiple *netinstall* modules can exist side-by-side, and they each
   control the package installation for their part of the package list.
   Previously, a netinstall module would overwrite all of the package
   configuration done by other netinstall modules. Translations can be
   provided in the configuration file, `netinstall.conf`. #1303
 - The *fstab* module no longer "claims" all the swap partitions it finds
   on disk. It only uses swap specified for the current installation.
   This means that "replace" and "alongside" installations will have
   no swap configured in the target system.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.19
