---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.22 released"
---
As part of a normal short-cycle release
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.22**, a features-and-bugfixes release.
The Calamares 3.2 branch continues to be developed, but a 3.3 branch
seems to be coming closer.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Camilo Higuita

## Core ##
 - Both the sidebar (on the left) and the navigation buttons (along the
   bottom of the window) can now be configured to use the traditional
   *widgets*, to use *qml*, or *hidden* from view (hiding the navigation
   is not recommended unless you have a pure-QML UI to run inside
   Calamares). The example QML that is compiled into Calamares has
   been improved. To use your own QML, put files `calamares-sidebar.qml`
   or `calamares-navigation.qml` into the branding directory.
 - The sidebar and navigation can now be placed on any side of the
   main window. This is probably only useful for QML-based UIs.
   See `branding.desc` for details.

## Modules ##
 - The *welcomeq* module has been improved with better layout and
   nicer buttons in the example QML form. (Thanks to Anke Boersma)
 - The *keyboardq* and *localeq* modules now provide some QML for
   configuring these parts, although they are still very primitive.
 - *netinstall* has had some minor layout fixes.
 - *unpackfs* has much more detailed progress reporting and no
   longer jumps around strangely in overall progress.
 - *partition* now correctly marks a partition as bootable in BIOS + MBR
   installs. #1175

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.22
