---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.20 released"
---
Hot on the heels of 3.2.19.1, the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.20**, a small features-and-bugfixes release.
This was a very short cycle. The next release is probably at the end of
March, due to international travel. Hopefully before FOSS-North.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Bart Ribbers

## Core ##
 - When logging level is set to 8 (eight), for instance via the `-D8`
   logging flag, or the `-d` debug flag, the *Show debug information*
   button will appear in the progress view. This helps with debugging
   issues where the `-d` flag would be inappropriate.
 - Calamares now starts at logging level 1 (warnings and errors to
   the console) by default. Previously it (wrongly) started at level 8.

## Modules ##
 - The *partition* module now stores which filesystems are in use in
   global storage.
 - The *contextualprocess* module now understands "compound variable
   names", where a dot (.) is used to index into structured data
   stored in global storage. This allows it to use the map stored
   by the partition module (but also other things, like looking into
   the branding information).
 - The *packages* module now understands "apk", the Alpine Linux
   package manager.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.20
