---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.18 released"
---
After a two months -- several new years and some conferences --
the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.18**, a minor features-and-bugfix release in the
Calamares 3.2.x series.
This tried to be a short-cycle release, and wasn't.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Bill Auger

## Core ##
 - *Assamese* translation has been added (still in preliminary state).
 - Timezone support code has migrated into the core of Calamares. This
   means that modules now have easier access to timezone information.
   Translations for timezones have also been enabled, so it is **possible**
   at least to translate the displayed zones in the *locale* module.
 - Branding can now specify whether to (try to) display the Calamares window
   in the middle of the desktop or not. The *windowPlacement* key in
   `branding.desc` specifies *center* or *free* placement.

## Modules ##
 - All modules can now set a new key in `module.desc` called *noconfig*.
   If this key is set to `true` (the default is `false), no configuration
   file is searched-for or loaded, and no warning is printed if the
   configuration is missing. This should tidy up some unnecessary warnings
   on startup. #1302 #1301
 - The *license* module has seen a significant change to its looks.
   Actions are now labeled more clearly, and the URL (or filename)
   for each license is displayed.
 - The *locale* module now supports translations for timezone and
   location names (e.g. "Berlin" is "Berlijn" in Dutch).
 - *Packagechooser* is a little more careful with displaying
   default and empty package names. (thanks to Bill Auger)
 - The *unpackfs* module now carries a larger weight in the overall
   progress of the installation, which should resolve downstream reports
   like "progress stops at 24% for a long time". This is currently
   hard-coded, but will become configurable in a future release. #1176


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.18
